Thank you very much, Bob.
That's an extraordinary compliment.
And I think when you write any book at all, you hope, first of all, people will enjoy it.
They'll read it.
But to think that somebody is suggesting that it'll be around 300 years.
I'll take 50 right now.
Bob mentioned that he has a set of the galleys.
The true collectors among you will probably appreciate just how dear these things are.
And in the case of the galleys for this book, there were some substantial changes from the proofs to the first edition of the printed book.
And I think I wrote and I inscribed the copy I gave to Bob.
I said, my first collector.
I couldn't believe it.
I actually had somebody who wanted to collect something that I'd written.
And I was very proud to...
that he was interested in having a copy of that and the fact that he's read it so carefully and so well and has been kind enough to say these nice words.
It's a great, great pleasure for me to come back to Clark.
Actually, to come back, I think Clark is with me all the time.
This is home.
I served as president of the Friends prior to Bob, and I follow Al Southwick, who's here.
And Al wrote a wonderful review of my book in Worcester Magazine a couple weeks ago.
In the C-SPAN interview, which Bob mentions, I quoted...
one of Al's comments, the interviewer, Brian Lamb, asked me if I'm a bibliomaniac.
And I said, you know, people ask me that often.
My stark answer is that I'm on the cusp
But I like the observation that Al Southwick made is Nick Basmaids might not be a bibliomaniac, but he is seriously at risk.
And thank you, Al.
I'm going to use that because I think it does describe the way I feel.
Boy, I really encourage all of you to take a look at these four exhibitions here.
I got here a little early just to enjoy them and to look at them, and I love the way they've been
They've been set up.
I mean, they've been curated by the collectors themselves.
So they aren't these sterile stock kinds of displays.
You see the haphazard nature of the way they've not seemingly haphazard.
And I guess that that kind of defines what a collector is.
It may seem to be haphazard and it may seem to be an accumulation.
But what it really is, it's focused.
It's a focused collection that represents the various interests of the four collectors, who's wonderful.
I mean, really, I'm so impressed.
I was asking Roger Casperson about that beautiful Hemingway first edition.
Mine doesn't even come close to the condition of his copy of that book.
My book is about collectors, I guess, in a very narrow sense, but
you won't learn anything about collecting if you read it.
And the book is 638 pages, and I won't even pretend to try and summarize it for you.
I hope that those of you who have it will read it, dip into it, and enjoy various sections of it.
One thing I'm constantly asked, constantly,
On the few occasions that I've been interviewed for this book, as recently as this morning, however, by a reporter for a Connecticut newspaper, it seems I should be the authority on this subject.
I've written a book about books, a book that is about the passion for books.
I guess it's a celebration of books as much as anything else.
So people usually come to this question, what do I think the future of the book is with this computer generation?
Everybody has a notebook, a small computer.
Of course, I have no idea, but I do feel that whatever shape or form books take,
If it's a computer or if it's a chip, there will always be books.
Books are expressions of creativity, and we've had them for 5,000 years.
When they first appeared, they were clay tablets.
They later became papyrus scrolls from the 3rd century to the 15th century.
They were bound in the same fashion that we see them today, but they were manuscript.
which means they were written by hand, and then we had the invention of movable type, which a lot of collectors in those days thought this was going to be the end of real books.
I mean, how dare they print something that everybody could have?
There would be no more unique copies.
Well, of course, books just flourished.
Whatever shape they take, whatever form they take, there will always be books, and there will always be the passion for them.
I'll tell you a little story about something that happened to me while I was in this
crazy mad rush to get my galleys completed and submitted to my publisher.
This was about April or May.
For reasons that I won't belabor, but I desperately needed to find the 1914 three-volume edition of the catalog of Samuel Pepys's library.
Had to be the 1914 edition, not the 1911, not the 1879, not the 1969, the 1914.
because there's an introduction to Volume 2 regarding the codicils of Pepys's will that I had to verify for bibliographic reasons.
Couldn't find it.
I was working off a Xerox that had been sent to me by the librarian of the Pepys Library at Cambridge University.
Repeated telephone calls.
Dr. Luckett is at lunch.
Dr. Luckett is someplace else.
I'm making these terribly expensive telephone calls to England.
Finally, one morning I was in Boston.
On a whim, I went to the Boston Athenaeum.
To make a long story short, yes, they had the three volumes.
As I was checking them out, they were in immaculate, beautiful condition.
And they don't have computers yet at the Athenaeum, so you sign out your books.
I opened up the book.
I'm the first person to ever check these books out of the Boston Athenaeum.
They've been there since 1914.
It's 1995, 81 years.
I said something really stupid like, gee, I wonder who they bought these books for in the first place.
And this distinguished gentleman signing me out said, we bought them for you, sir.
And, you know, the Athenaeum has been around since 1807.
And I later talked to, I mean, this really struck me.
I mean, the voice was so resonant.
If you read my book, you'll see Sir Robert Cotton and Isaiah Thomas and Jeremy Belknap and Thomas Prince and all these people, all these voices I felt coming down through the ages telling me why some collector or some librarian had seen fit to buy a book that maybe they didn't see any use for, but that somebody down the road, desperate like myself,
would need to have.
And that, I guess, is the future and the meaning of books and what collectors in their own way and libraries, which are collectors in an institutional way, perform, is that they don't just satisfy their passion for these things, is that they do preserve and they pass on.
And I guess that was what I tried to celebrate in this book, which I titled A Gentle Madness.
And I'm pleased to note that this title is kind of taking on a little
a little kind of a cachet of its own.
I was signing books in Washington three weeks ago at the Antiquarian Booksellers Association book fair, these antiquarian book fairs they have.
And on the same day that Colin Powell was signing books out in Virginia, I was signing books in the District of Columbia.
Of course, he signed, I think, something like 2,000 books online.
And I said, I'll never get anybody, but I signed 400, which I'm very... because I had a bunch of ringers.
I had all collectors there.
And they were all there to get the first edition of the book, which I'm pleased to say is a fairly scarce item right now.
The first printing of the book was 6,700 copies, which we thought was good, and it disappeared within two days.
And the second printing...
was ordered the first week of publication, and that was totally on back order.
I'm gloating now, forgive me.
It's amazing because nobody knows what the tastes of the readership is going to be, the audience.
Well, the second printing of, I think it was 11,000, was on full back order by the time it was finished.
And then now the third printing, which brings us up to 35,000 copies in print, is just arriving at bookstores, and that's within six weeks of publication.
So I think I've touched something out there.
And there are more people than you might think, certainly not with this audience.
We're talking with an audience of bibliophiles who really care about books, which is what I hope a gentle madness is all about.
Briefly, the title has a Worcester connection, a Worcester residence.
When Isaiah Thomas, who was the great colonial and federal printer, bookseller, entrepreneur, and founder of the American Aquarian Society, died, his grandson Benjamin Franklin Thomas said in an appreciation, which was later published in the second edition of his History of Printing in North America, that grandfather was afflicted
From the earliest age with that gentlest of infirmities, he was a bibliomaniac.
And I saw that and said, there's my title right there.
And I kind of coined a gentle madness.
It pleased me while I was in Washington a couple of weeks ago.
There was a cocktail party that I went to prior to one of the signings.
And I was there a little early, and I was sitting down with this gentleman I didn't know.
And I asked him if he was a bookseller, because this was a party put together by a bookseller.
He said, no, no, I'm just one of the gently mad.
And boy, I sat up, you know.
I said, really, you know.
I said, I was the one who coined that phrase.
And I said, really, you're Nicholas?
And his name was Nick, too.
He was from Fort Wayne, Indiana.
And he said, I came here to meet you and to buy your book.
So we, and to get, that was kind of nice.
And he's a Mark Twain collector, as it happens.
And we've started a correspondence.
Since the book has been published, it was published in the first week of August, I've received, on average, I would say a letter a day.
I've received a wonderful one.
It's amazing that there are maybe 20,000 copies of the book out there.
And when I think of, I've been writing for newspapers for 30 years, and when I write a column that may get into 25 newspapers, your circulation can be as many as 2 or 3 million.
I mean, mind-boggling numbers.
Never get a letter, you know?
But you write a book, and it's amazing that not only are the letters, do you get letters, number one, but they're so intelligent, and they're from people who are reading the book, finding mistakes.
I see a letter now, I shudder.
It's like my brother, who's an attorney, says he gets a letter from the board of bar overseers, and first, you know, you wipe your brow.
And then you open it up, it's a solicitation.
But I see a letter, I say, what have they found now?
Thankfully, the errors have been minor and have been quietly corrected from printing to printing.
I think there are 10 issue points that distinguish.
For collectors, you'll appreciate what I'm saying here.
Issue points from the second printing to the first printing, and the third printing has
I think four, and when we hopefully get into a fourth edition, there'll be a couple more.
Nothing major, but I nevertheless hate to learn, for instance, that it wasn't Thomas Vaughan who wrote Silex Sintelins in 1623, it was his twin brother Henry, you know, and a professor in New York caught that one.
And the one mention of Thomas, I mean, it's amazing.
I had an 1893 that should be an 18, an 1883 that should be an 1893 typo, hit the wrong number.
I had, you don't want to hear my errors, but anyone, Bob, you can, Bob can verify, Al, you live in, you live in,
fear, terror that somebody's going to really find something that's... But it hasn't so far, thankfully, knock on wood, we haven't had a really embarrassing situation.
Anyway, we talked about the title of the book.
Am I a collector?
Of course.
Do I collect books?
I look at these four collections over here and I say, wow, this stuff is outstanding.
I think one of the points I try to make in my book is that
To have a really wonderful collection, you don't have to have an inexhaustible source of funds.
Book collecting is not synonymous with expensive book collecting.
I mean, you can have a great deal of fun by collecting scarce, unusual, and very cheap things.
I mean, you can find some of my favorite catches or 50-cent things at the Salvation Army bookstore or in antique barns.
And I guess my favorite personal collection is a collection of about 1,500 to 2,000 first editions.
But they're books that were written by authors I've interviewed for the last 19 years, since I've been writing about books for the Telegram and now other newspapers.
And from the very beginning, every time I interviewed an author,
I would ask the man or the woman, whoever, Bill Ferguson, for instance, comes immediately to mind when we talk.
What year was that, Bill?
Freedom?
Well, there you go.
So that's 11 years.
I was already five, six years into the project at that point.
I would always ask the author to write some sort of an inscription.
That collection now is, I've cheated.
See, I've interviewed maybe 900 authors.
How is it that I've got
2,000 books.
Well, if I were doing Joseph Heller on God Knows, well, I'd bring along a Catch-22, you know.
Or if I were doing Arthur Miller on his memoir, Time Bends, I'd bring along Death of a Salesman, so on.
William Kennedy, the whole lot.
Toni Morrison, the whole lot.
So you don't just only have that one inscribed book of the one you're doing the story on, you have the others.
And so it's now about 1,500, 2,000 volumes.
But when you think about it, what does this collection actually cost me in terms of money?
Nothing.
Not even a nickel.
Not counting the books that I've added to it.
But the central collection is review books.
Books that have been sent to me by publishers with the hope and the expectation that I'll write something about it.
And on those occasions that I do, I'll have them sign it.
And so what's the value?
Is the value monetary?
I have no idea.
Some of them, I suppose, the Ansel Adams book would have some value.
But the value is personal, and I think that's what these four collections write out here.
I have no doubt that a number of the items in there are very valuable books, which certainly command wonderful prices if they were ever put up at auction.
But the value to their owners, I know, is personal, and that's, I guess, what book collecting is really all about.
We've talked about value of my prepared text here.
The book, of course, as Bob mentioned, is divided into two parts.
Bob read the second part first.
A lot of people are doing that, and it really is two books as envisioned.
Originally, when I first made the proposal to write this book back in 1987 or so, I envisioned just a history.
And I guess this started from a piece I did about the Antiquarian Society, again, on their 175th anniversary back in 87, and pretty nicely received.
And I thought I'd just do a history of this passion and how this passion has been channeled into the preservation of books, manuscripts of knowledge.
And a publisher liked the idea, signed a contract.
But as it developed, the journalist in me said, well, these stories are wonderful.
They're history.
But what's going on right now?
And that really became part two, which
which is of the 638 pages, it's probably, what, 400?
I don't know how many, maybe two-thirds of the book, are these wonderful stories that just happen to break more or less on my watch.
I mean, who could predict a year and a half into the writing of this book that Stephen Blumberg, this book thief, would get arrested and
And they would find in his house in Ottumwa, Iowa, 24,000 rare books, all of them stolen from 368 colleges and universities throughout the United States, a value initially estimated to be as high as $20 million, but more realistically $7 million, which is not bad.
What made him very interesting to me...
We've been talking all along about the productive aspects of bibliomania, bibliophilia.
Well, here's the perfect example of what happens when a collector falls over the cliff.
It totally loses it.
These are the consequences, I guess, of uncontrolled, unchecked bibliomania.
Beyond that, he was a wonderful story.
And so I went to his trial.
Spent two weeks in Iowa in one of the coldest winters they've ever had.
Got to know him, spent a day with him.
He was out on bail while they were still waiting for the verdict to come down.
What happened in his case, of course, these are the consequences of what I call criminal bibliomania.
He wasn't really charged with stealing these books because it was a federal crime.
He was charged with transporting stolen property across state lines into Iowa.
But to prove that, they had to prove that the books were stolen.
But his defense, unique, no other instance of it in the history of American jurisprudence, was insanity.
Now, you have a book called The Gentle Madness, and you have a guy who's stealing books valued at $7 million, and his defense is insanity.
And it wasn't a frivolous defense.
I mean, if I were on the jury, I would have accepted it, I think.
He had a history.
I mean, he had 20-year history of read the book.
I mean, I did manage to get access to his psychiatric records, and his father had power of attorney and allowed me to examine them.
I got a letter from Steven from prison after he got a chance to read the book, and he said, as painful as it is to rehash those days, I find on balance it's a very
a very fair evaluation of what happened, but then he used an expletive.
He said, but that tells you how sacred your thoughts are, the thoughts are that you share with the psychiatrist.
He had no idea that his very valid complaint, you know, he had no idea that some of these records that he had, some of these statements that he had shared with the psychoanalyst had been turned over to me, but...
I hope that they served a useful purpose in the book.
Stephen was a thief.
He had committed, by his own estimation, perhaps 10,000 felonies in his life.
But was he just a thief?
If he were just a thief, then he wouldn't really be of that much interest to me.
I mean, there have been other book thieves, certainly not nearly as spectacular as Stephen...
But what made him very interesting to me is that he stole these books to keep them.
He loved them.
There was no greed involved.
He didn't steal them.
Not that this mitigates the crime in any way, but he was a collector.
I call that chapter the Blumberg Collection.
And it was very focused.
Any number of people who went and looked at it said, it's a beautiful collection.
It's the provenance that we question.
One fellow said, well, I don't much care for ex-libris books.
But...
Other than that, they're wonderful.
He took out all of the book plates.
So it made it very hard to figure out where these books all came from.
But what he also did is he had some albums.
And this became a collection within the collection.
He put all these book plates from all the various places that he stole books into these albums.
And so when they finally caught up with him and they started examining these book plates, they had an idea of where to start.
But still, which book plates belong to which books?
And while we were driving down to Ottumwa that day during the middle of the trial, he was kind of holding out as what he thought might be a bargaining chip
that might help him negotiate a lesser sentence was that he knew where every book came from.
So he said to me, turn off your tape recorder.
I turned it off.
And he said, you know the Uncle Tom's cabin they think I got from Harvard?
He said, I got it from USC.
And it was.
But that chip, like every other, it lost its currency because they had a whole team of bibliographers who
worked on the books.
It was amazing how they determined where the books came from.
Because up until the time of his arrest, and he had been stealing for a 20-year period,
all over the United States.
It was 40, 45 states, two Canadian provinces in the District of Columbia that he stole books from.
And he was really out for the record.
He hadn't been to Hawaii or Alaska yet, and there were certain places way up north that he didn't like the cold.
But he would have gotten there sooner or later, I'm sure.
But he had this idea of putting together a marvelous collection of Americana,
that would document.
He said, by the way, that he was tempted by the American Antiquarian Society, but he never thought he would be able to get in there.
Their security was good.
I told Marcus that.
Marcus was very pleased that he was on the list, but he was never able to get in.
One of the ways that they determined ownership was interesting.
Harvard, for instance, uses a
a certain kind of tape that they could identify for repairing books.
So they're able to identify certain books as belonging to Harvard by the tape, or there were watermarks.
But it was an extraordinary job.
There were 24,000 books.
Among the treasures that he had was the state of Connecticut's own copy of the first
book printed in Connecticut.
He stole that from the state of Connecticut Library.
He also collected doorknobs.
He gave me one, as a matter of fact, as a memento of our day together.
He had a warehouse.
Oh, this guy is unbelievable.
He had a warehouse in downtown Ottumwa.
He had, it is estimated, perhaps eight other
warehouses throughout the United States.
He had 50,000 antique doorknobs.
He had 120,078 RPM records.
He had perhaps as many as 30,000 stained glass windows.
Now these are the stained glass windows of these old Victorian houses that had been condemned.
He started doing collecting things when he was 12 or 13.
He had been treated, you know, he had legitimate emotional
psychiatric problems.
But he had this fascination for the Victorian period, and the book collection started more or less as a reference library to document some of the things that he was interested in.
And then it went off on its own.
I said, well, how does that explain the 100 incunables that you have?
I mean, incunables are books that were printed from 1450 or so up until 1500, the first printed books.
Incunable means from the cradle.
It's the cradle period of printing.
So if he's only interested in Americana, what is he doing with books that were printed before the discovery of America, you know?
And he said, well, that became, he said, yeah, that's a good point.
He said, but I really became interested in printing itself.
And he said, 100 incunables at this stage of the 20th century.
He said, not bad, not a bad achievement.
And he was very impressed.
He was so upset because when the books were seized, they brought them to a, if I'm going too long on Bloomberg, stop me, by the way.
He does seem to be the,
the character in the book that people are most interested in.
But where was I going, Bob?
I sometimes get going on these... I'm sorry, what?
When they were seized.
Thank you.
They brought the books to a warehouse in Omaha, Nebraska.
A secret warehouse.
Nobody knew where it was.
The FBI took me.
They didn't blindfold me, but they did drive me around in circles.
And it was this nondescript warehouse.
And the agent in charge said, I don't know what you want to come out here for.
All you're going to see is old books.
I said, you know... He said, it looks just like a library.
I said, well, that's... I said, that's the idea.
I described this in the early pages of that chapter.
Yeah, I went and it looked just like a library.
Beautiful bindings.
He had a wonderful collection of...
18th century American bindings, these incunables that we mentioned, all sorts of things.
But what struck me were these little signs that they had on the shelves, corrugated metal shelving, and the signs were Harvard, UCLA, Wisconsin Historical Society, all these different institutions that they had identified as the places that he had stolen from.
And he had said to me later that,
He said, they messed up my whole cataloging scheme.
I mean, yeah, he said, he said, when I had them in a tumour, I had them all by subject matter.
He had his favorite room in the house was the California room.
And I have pictures for those of you who have the book.
I took some pictures of him.
And these are the only pictures I'm pleased to say that that.
other than his mug shot that has been shot since his arrest, he's posing very happily in front of some empty shells in the California Room.
And that was named the California Room because that was where he did what he felt were his best pickings.
Claremont College, USC.
He climbed up elevator.
And how he got into, I mean, the way he did these thefts is beyond belief.
He would climb up elevator shafts.
He was a locksmith.
He would make keys.
He once managed to get an ID card of a professor.
So he assumed, and then he told me, well, I'm very good at things.
So he constructed a whole new identity for himself around this professor, Matthew Magoo was his name.
And he had a driver's license with his own picture, totally authentic driver's license, social security card, faculty ID.
And now he was able to elevate the level of his collecting.
Before he could just get into the general stacks, now as a visiting professor, Professor Magoo, with his briefcase filled with, pardon me, burglary tools, he was now able to get into the special collections areas.
And he would steal keys, he'd take them out, make copies, come back at night.
He knew how to get around...
security systems.
I mean, a couple of mafia guys talked to him, and they said, what are you fooling around with books for, you know?
With your talent, you know, you could be... And they said, well, you don't understand.
He said, I didn't steal the... I didn't take the books to sell them.
I took them to keep them.
And he said, when I told them that, they decided I really was crazy.
And...
So he is still in prison, by the way.
They gave him seven years.
His insanity defense didn't hold up.
They took about 15 minutes to convict, and he is going to be released in February.
And so many, in fact, I've been invited, this is true, to participate in a symposium put together by the Smithsonian Institution, and it's in February, and it's for security directors at museums and libraries that are coming from all, and they want me to talk about Blumberg, and they are really concerned what's going to happen when Blumberg gets out.
And I said, don't worry, there's only one Stephen Blumberg, and
The real people you have to worry about are the
the people who really have legitimate access to get inside.
I tell one story in that Bloomberg chapter about this fellow down in Georgia, a guy by the name of Skeet Willingham, who was the curator, the librarian there of rare books.
And he stole virtually all of the Confederate imprints and destroyed the records.
So there was no way of knowing what they had and sold them.
So, I mean, this is a question of pure greed.
I mean,
If there's a balance of who's more evil, I mean, they're both thieves, but Willingham only served like a year and a half, and I find his crime far more reprehensible than Blumberg's, as heinous as it is.
I mean, the guy is, I think, clearly sick and requires some form of treatment.
And in the end, you know, how can you really despise somebody who loves books as much as he did?
And...
Well, he's only one chapter out of 14.
I think, in my own view, it's the chapter that everybody is kind of interested in because it was a national story when it broke.
There was some press attention.
Thankfully, from my standpoint, I was the only journalist from outside of Iowa at the trial, so I kind of had a clear field.
It happened that the week that trial went on was the same week that Operation Desert Storm started, and the press was more interested in the bombing in the Gulf than they were in books in Iowa.
It worked out to my advantage.
But that's one case.
That's the aberrational case.
I like to think that the William Scheide's of the world, and Mr. Scheide, who is considered to own the finest private book collection in the world, and when he allowed me to handle his Gutenberg Bible, and I felt lightheaded,
I think that's really what the book is more properly about.
Or Carter Burden, who has this extraordinary collection of 70,000 modern first editions, American first editions.
Or Chef Zathmary from Chicago, who acquired 250,000 culinary objects, which he has since given to Johnson and Wales, the University of Chicago.
University of Iowa, University of Nevada, Las Vegas, given just to further scholarship.
And I think you'll find that wherever you go in the United States,
that there's always a collector or a group of collectors who at some point have given whatever library it may be, its focus, the finest books that they have, and they may be quirky.
You know, you have the Arendt's Tobacco Collection at the New York Public Library put together by one of the owners of the American Tobacco Company, but they have 250,000 items.
and very, very worthwhile things.
So the second half of the book is the journalism, the front half is the history, and I'm sorry I talked so long about Mr. Blumberg, but I'd be pleased to answer any questions anybody might have.
I hope, Robert, you said you had a dozen, so come on, you're the ringer in the audience.
my own adventures.
I don't consider, I thought I was a serious collector up until the day I started this book.
And then when I really saw what some of these people have, I kind of lost my steam, you know.
I love my modern first editions.
I love my signed books.
I love my books on
bibliography and the history of collecting and library formation, but when you see some of these collections of William Self, the Hollywood producer who gives you his copy of, allows me you to hold his copy of Tamerlane, he has 22 inscribed copies of Dickens, one book that Dickens gave to Hans Christian Andersen.
And it's inscribed, and you're holding this.
And I think that's part of collecting.
Every collector, every bibliophile will admit that there is something tactile.
You really feel it.
Something really goes up your arms and you get dizzy.
I've seen Bob faint.
When he sees a particularly beautiful bird illustration, I mean...
That was at the price, though.
Whatever.
So, yes, sir?
What happens to these collections when they die?
Where do they go?
Well, my first paragraph of the book, it's the defining moment, you know, in the life of every collector comes this moment.
Regardless of how great or how small the collection is, there comes a point where the books have to pass...
And as I've indicated, and perhaps not well enough, that so many of the great, great libraries in this country have been given books by, I mean, look at the Morgan Library.
That's one collector in New York.
Look at the American Antiquarian Society, which started as the collection of Isaiah Thomas.
the Huntington Library in California.
I mean, everywhere you go, the New York Public Library is just a collection of great collections for maybe a hundred different people who have put together these collections.
Now, all collections shouldn't go to institutions because that would take the fun out of collecting.
You have to leave stuff for the next... The greatest American collection ever is said to be Robert Hole III.
He died in 1909.
My chapter 5
which I call Brandy for Heroes, and I won't get into how it came by that title, but that starts with the wholesale in 1911, and why did he not give these books to some library?
He said, well, if other people didn't sell their books, where would I have gotten mine?
And he felt an obligation, and he had two Gutenberg Bibles, one on vellum, one on paper.
It was a remarkable sale that went on for two years.
In fact, Harry Widener was on his way back from
England just to attend one of the wholesales when he went down on the Titanic, which I described in the book.
And he helps his mother on board lifeboat number four.
He said, mother, I have the bacon.
The bacon goes with me.
And he had a little volume of Bacon's essays, which he had purchased in England.
And those are the old days.
My wife said, you know, how many of these guys would...
would help their mothers and their wives on the boats, you know, they'd probably jump on it.
I mean, that was the day of gentlemen.
And he went down with his father on the Titanic, and the result, of course, is the great Widener Library at Harvard University, which is really a monument to a collector.
I don't know if that answers the question, but some people sell them.
Other people pass them on.
But the books, what matters is that the books go on and that there's some place for another collector or for an institution.
Nick, this book is on the way.
What's your name?
Still, happily, my publisher is asking the same question, and that's the real...
I say the hardest thing in the world is to sell your first book, and I can attest to that, and that it's now out and exceeding their expectations.
They want to know what's next, and I don't know, but I'd like to think that I'm not done with books yet, and I don't want to do more of the same.
I'd like to do some stories about European collecting and focus really on the 20th century, but we'll see.
We'll see if there's interest in it.